Turning down the jab:  Using regression to explore  factors associated with low COVID vaccination rates in the US

Abstract
As of late July 2021, COVID-19 cases are again on the rise in the United States. This wave, fueled by the highly contagious delta variant, is primarily affecting the unvaccinated. The goal of this project is to determine which political and socioeconomic factors best explain the variation in vaccination rates at the county level.  I web scraped the cdc to obtain data. I created a linear regression model, and used 5-fold cross-validation to perform feature engineering and regularization. Feature engineering and regularization did not improve metrics over the baseline (OLS), so I choose OLS as  the best model. This model demonstrates that the vote split, % of the population that is black, and % uninsured best explain the variation in vaccination rates.

Design
This most recent COVID-19 wave, fueled by the highly contagious delta variant, is primarily affecting the unvaccinated. At this point, despite widespread availability of the vaccine in the US, more than 30% of adults remain unvaccinated. This number varies considerably from one county to the next. The goal of this project is to determine which political and socioeconomic factors best explain the variation in vaccination rates at the county level - using a linear regression model

Data
I web scraped the CDC using selenium and beautiful soup to obtain vaccination data. Supplemental data came from 2 downloaded datasets:
- Outcomes of the 2020 presidential election by county obtained via csv download from GitHub user Tony McGovern
		- Specifically, will use % difference between GOP and Dem vote counts (i.e. %vote for Trump - %vote for Biden), commonly referred to as the “vote split”
	- Additional county-level data obtained via csv download from OpenIntro
After joining and cleaning, I had 17 features and 2533 data points. I removed 6 features because of high collinearity based on VIF analysis. So on entering modeling I had 11 features and 2533 data points

Algorithms
I created a linear regression model, and used 5-fold cross-validation to perform feature engineering and regularization. Feature engineering and regularization did not improve metrics over the baseline (OLS), so I choose OLS as  the best model. 

Tools:
I web scraped the CDC using selenium and beautiful soup

Communication
Looking forward to the presentation!
